---
title: Sixth Post
publish_date: 2023-05-12
disable_html_sanitization: true
---

# Final Design

To create the background animation I wanted something wave like to make the viewer think of the ocean. The spiral design of the fractals made it look like it was in motion and was in some kind of circular current. So I decided to make the the background animate in a circle around the fractal so that it would look like it was pushing the fractal tree to bend in the direction of the current. I decided to use circles as bubbles and have it orbit around the center, and I used a video on how to animate circular motion from a channel called Chris Courses. They made an animation of small circles orbiting around the cursor. I used the ideas discussed which were very helpful since I had previously tried to code circular motion before on my own, but didn't know how to vary the x and y position so that it would orbit something. I ended up using Math.sin and Math.cos functions to code the motion which I initially thought of using, but I wasn't quite sure of the math behind it.

<iframe width="853" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/raXW5J1Te7Y?" title="How to Code: Circular Motion" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

I ended up creating 500 circles in the background orbiting the center of the canvas, with each having a random starting position on the canvas. I made all the circles a blue color between 220 and 240 on the HSL color wheel. Since there were so many circles with some having the same colors overlapping each other, they end up creating large patches which seemed to ripple and flow. The circular motion of the particles helped add to my design and the particles act like individual water molecules which is fun to watch. The final design is also able to be resized on any screen so people can look at it on their phones if they want to. I personally have spent quite some time clicking on my own site, generating random fractals and I think that the tips having color gives the fractal alot more complexity and makes it more interesting. Some important techniques I learned that I can use in other projects was the canvas transformation functions, this baffled me at the start but I think that I have some hold of it now. Learning the equations for circular motion was also quite helpful, I feel like I could tweak the formulas to create some interesting spiral patterns or ellipses. I also understand recursion better and can probably revisit my failed L-System prototype and fix it. It is a powerful technique but can also be hard to visualize in your head how the end result is going to look unless you already know. There is also the balancing act of wanting to go deep enough into recursion to have complexity without going so far deep that the computer can't handle it and the browser crashes. In the end I think that my final design is interesting to look at and has some engaging interaction.

https://toveys-net-art.deno.dev/